---
title: Long Covid Treatments
description: Promising new therapies that may help address symptoms of long covid, such as chronic fatigue.
published: true
date: '2023-06-30T22:13:28.338Z'
tags: long covid, therapies, chronic fatigue, studies
editor: markdown
dateCreated: '2023-06-30T21:33:37.395Z'
---

Several treatments are being explored for chronic fatigue related to long COVID. Here are some of the most promising ones:

-   [**Low dose naltrexone**](https://nationalpharmacyrx.com/low-dose-naltrexone-and-long-covid/): In open-label single-site studies, cohorts treated with these medications have demonstrated clinical benefit among patients with myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS), and have subsequently been used off-label for the treatment of long COVID. The average cost of generic naltrexone without insurance is $101 for a 30-day supply. With insurance, the cost can be between $0-$101 for a 30-day supply.
-   [**Low dose aripiprazole**](https://www.verywellhealth.com/low-dose-naltrexone-long-covid-treatment-7507283): The lowest GoodRx price for the most common version of aripiprazole is around $9.00.
-   [**Anhydrous Enol-Oxaloacetate capsules**](https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT05430152): Patients with ME/CFS and long COVID treated with oral Anhydrous Enol-Oxaloacetate capsules achieved significantly reduced fatigue. These are sold under the brand name benaGene and cost approximately $49 for a bottle.
-   [**Antihistamines**](https://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/978707): In small studies, antihistamines have been shown to reduce some long COVID symptoms, including fatigue, brain fog, and an inability to concentrate. A month’s supply of a generic antihistamine can be purchased over the counter for about $10-$20.
-   [**Pyridostigmine**](https://www.medscape.com/viewarticle/978707): Pyridostigmine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, is approved for the treatment of muscle weakness and is under investigation for treating the constellation of overlapping symptoms associated with ME/CFS, long COVID, and dysautonomia. The cost for a pyridostigmine oral tablet of 60 mg is around $19 for a supply of 30 tablets.
-   **Pacing**: Pacing is a strategy that involves figuring out what you can do daily without struggle and gradually increasing activity levels. People with long COVID who have tried pacing say it has helped them return to a semblance of normalcy.
-   [**Plasmapheresis**](https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT05430152): Plasmapheresis is a procedure that involves removing blood from the body, separating the plasma from the blood cells, and then returning the blood cells to the body. In a small study, plasmapheresis was found to be effective in reducing fatigue and other symptoms in patients with long COVID. The plasmapheresis procedure usually costs from $1,000 to $2,000 per session. The cost can be as high as $5,000 and $10,000 for a five-session course.
-   [**NAD+**](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9250701/): Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) is a coenzyme found in all living cells. It is involved in many cellular processes, including energy metabolism. A Phase II pilot study exploring low-dose naltrexone (LDN) and NAD+ effectiveness for symptoms of long COVID is underway. NAD+ IV therapy can cost upward of $800 for a single treatment.
-   [**Hyperbaric oxygen therapy**](https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT05430152): Hyperbaric oxygen therapy involves breathing pure oxygen in a pressurized room or tube. It treats various conditions, including decompression sickness, carbon monoxide poisoning, and wounds that won't heal. A small study found that hyperbaric oxygen therapy effectively reduced fatigue and other symptoms in patients with long COVID. A single session of this therapy can range from $200 to $450 per session but can be as high as $1,000 to $2,500 per treatment at major hospitals.
-   **TENS machine**: Newcastle University researchers have begun a new study to test the effectiveness of a TENS machine to alleviate fatigue in patients with long COVID. The non-invasive method involves clipping an earpiece to the tragus on the ear and delivering small electrical currents to the vagus nerve. A base model TENS unit can be purchased for as little as $40-$50, and the fancier models can run as much as $1,000.
-   **Lithium**: Lithium is a mood stabilizer that is used to treat bipolar disorder. Some researchers are testing lithium as a treatment for neurological and psychological symptoms of long COVID. The cost for lithium oral capsule 300 mg is around $15 for a supply of 100 capsules.
-   **Guanfacine**: Guanfacine is a drug that is used to treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and high blood pressure. It is being tested for use in treating brain fog, a common symptom in patients with long COVID.
-   **Paxlovid**: Paxlovid is a drug developed by Pfizer to treat COVID-19. It is being tested in a clinical trial as a treatment for long COVID symptoms.