---
title: BPC 157
description: 
published: true
date: '2022-08-20T16:47:32.420Z'
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: '2022-07-27T20:35:14.592Z'
---

# BPC-157

BPC-157 ('Body Protecting Compound") is a peptide chain consisting of 15 amino acids. It is considered synthetic because this particular sequence does not exist in nature. It is derived from a protective protein found in the stomach.

## Contents

-   [1 Side-Effect Warnings](#side-effect-warnings)
    -   [1.1 Anhedonia](#anhedonia)
-   [2 Is Oral BPC-157 Dosing Effective?](#is-oral-bpc-157-dosing-effective?)
    -   [2.1 Successful Application of BPC-157 For Oral Use](#successful-application-of-bpc-157-for-oral-use)
    -   [2.2 Ligament (MCL) Recovery with Oral BPC-157](#ligament-mcl-recovery-with-oral-bpc-157)
    -   [2.3 Recovery of NSAID Induced Injury by Oral Administration](#recovery-of-nsaid-induced-injury-by-oral-administration)
    -   [2.4 Oral Effectiveness of Healing Muscle Injury](#oral-effectiveness-healing-muscle-injury)
    -   [2.5 The Verdict](#the-verdict)
-   3 Dosage
-   4 Sources

## Side-Effect Warnings

### Anhedonia

> TL;DR: Many healing compounds like BPC-157 have similar anti-dopaminergic effects - in particular, BPC-157 could be _similar to Lithium_ in its effects on the dopamine system.
> 
> Sadly, it seems that the "healing properties" of BPC-157 are directly tied to its negative effects on the dopamine system. Many other agents with anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, pro-tissue regeneration, pro-angiogenesis properties (overall, good for health) sadly seem to also blunt the dopamine system / dopaminergic stimulants.
> 
> Consider the GSK-3 beta enzyme. Inhibition of this enzyme tends to promote pro-angiogenesis, pro-regenerative, pro-insulin sensitivity effects - similar to those of BPC-157. GSK-3 inhibition is also strongly neuroprotective, similar to BPC-157. This pathway seems to switch on anti-apoptotic genes (PI3K-Akt/Wnt), promoting cell resilience against stress.
> 
> However, they also do this:
> 
> Inhibition of GSK3 attenuates dopamine D1 receptor agonist-induced hyperactivity in mice
> 
> In other words, GSK-3 inhibition attenuates responses to dopamine agonists, at least in the locomotion department. This is also what BPC-157 was seen to do to Amphetamine. Lithium, known long to have anti-dopaminergic effects, was shown to produce those through GSK-3 inhibition. GSK-3 in general has a positive effect on the dopamine system - GSK-3 is upregulated in states of excessive dopaminergic sensitivity (eg. schizophrenia, mania). Consequently, GSK-3 inhibition has antipsychotic, anti-manic effects.
> 
> Now, I'm not saying BPC-157 is necessarily a GSK-3 inhibitor. My point is that many healing compounds that work through GSK-3 inhibition also reduce responsiveness to dopamine agonists, so perhaps there's some correlation.
> 
> Interestingly though, like BPC-157, GSK-3 inhibitors - including Lithium - do have pro-angiogenesis effects. This would make them possibly good for tissue healing, at the cost of anti-dopaminergic effects.
> 
> Note that BPC-157 is active at 10 picograms/kg in mice - less than 1 millionth of what you took. It is extremely potent, and thus would have to go many half-lives to reach a concentration in the body in which its inactive.
> 
> How to solve this? I am not sure. I suspect I might have dealt, or still dealing, with a similar issue due to BPC-157 use 3.5 years ago (2 weeks of 250 - 500mcg/day SubQ). I certainly can feel dopaminergic stimulants now, but still less then before BPC (I might misremember though as it was years ago) - of course, there could be a million reasons why, so I wouldn't say with confidence it's the BPC-157.
> 
> I'm presently looking for compounds that do quite the opposite of BPC-157/Lithium on dopaminergic circuits (GSK-3 activators). Lithium inhibits GSK-3 by competing with Magnesium ions - Magnesium is a necessary cofactor for the enzyme. While it doesn't upregulate it, I still try to have enough so GSK-3 won't be underactive. Again, I'm not even sure that BPC-157 inhibits GSK-3, but it seems like other compounds that both have healing properties _and_ anti-dopaminergic properties, act through GSK-3 inhibition (as its inhibition achieves both).
> 
> From Regenine at [BPC-157 Induced Anhedonia](https://www.reddit.com/r/StackAdvice/comments/iqyamt/bpc157_induced_anhedonia_advice_greatly/)

## Is Oral BPC-157 Dosing Effective?

Unlike most peptides, which have been proven to be effective only via administration by injection, there are lingering questions surrounding the bioavailability and efficacy of BPC-157 when administered orally.

As it has been observed to have a more localized, proximate healing effect, it has been hypothesized that BPC-157 may have a substantial beneficial impact when administered orally on injuries suffered in the gastrointestinal system.

Further, as other studies have illuminated the peptide's positive impact on healing regarding the 'brain-gut' axis, regenerative effects resulting from the oral route have also been hypothesized to extend to neuroprotection and healing as well.

But can it still be effective in healing musculoskeletal injuries when given orally?

### Successful Application of BPC-157 For Oral Use

To date, several clinical studies conducted using rat test subjects have observed the effects of both parenteral administration (injection) of BPC-157 and oral administration.

Generally, these studies have yielded promising results, **with oral administration observed to be significantly effective**.

For example, oral delivery has been observed to provide measurable neuroprotective effects in rat test subjects exposed to cuprizone (a neurotoxin). Likewise, ancillary research suggests that the peptide's influence on the brain-gut axis may be responsible for these benefits as well.

It is important to note that at this time, studies have only been conducted using rodent subjects and not performance animals like greyhounds or horses.

However, to be clear, _**several clinical studies have given strong evidence for the efficacy of BPC-157 when administered orally**_.

What's more, the healing effects seen with oral administration in these studies have been observed to be comparable to those attained when given by injection.

Certainly, this suggests that adequate bioavailability can in fact be achieved through an oral dose.

_With this in mind, let's take a look at several specific studies that offer compelling evidence for the effectiveness of oral administration._

### Ligament (MCL) Recovery with Oral BPC-157

In a 2010 study published in the Journal of Orthopaedic Research, researchers concluded that BPC-157 was able to enhance the healing of medial collateral ligament (MCL) injuries in rodent subjects.

In the study, the peptide was administered in 3 different ways: via injection, topically, and orally through drinking water. Throughout the 90-day study duration, researchers found that body protection compound substantially improved biomechanical, histological, and functional recovery of the injured ligament.

Importantly, it was also observed that these healing benefits were attained _regardless_ of the method of administration.

This led the researchers to conclude that **BPC-157 oral delivery was indeed effective** in this case.

### Recovery of NSAID Induced Injury by Oral Administration

A study conducted the following year demonstrated powerful healing and protective effects in combating toxicity induced by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Again, these recuperative benefits were observed with both oral dosing and injection.

Published in Life Sciences in 2011, the study aimed to use BPC-157 to reverse and protect against toxic effects caused by the overuse of NSAIDs in rat test subjects. Specifically, researchers looked to counteract lesions and toxicity occurring in the brain, liver, and gastrointestinal system.

Following the study's conclusion, researchers observed the peptide to be _'strongly effective'_ throughout the entire duration of the experiment, noting the extreme differences in the control group receiving no treatment, including severe lesions, increased liver enzymes (ALT and AST), and brain edema (hepatic encephalopathy).

Importantly, **the researchers found oral dosing of BPC-157 to be comparably effective** to parenteral administration here as well.

### Oral Effectiveness Healing Muscle Injury

In 2013, a study published in Medical Science Monitor Basic Research provided strong evidence for the effectiveness of BPC-157 oral dosing to enhance the healing of injured muscle tissue in rodents.

Noting the peptide's ability to stimulate healing of damaged smooth and striated muscle tissue in the gastrointestinal system, researchers aimed to observe the body protection compound's healing effect in treating stress urinary incontinence in female rat test subjects caused by transabdominal urethrolysis and sustained vaginal dilatation. Over 7 days, the peptide was administered either orally or by injection, with control groups receiving no treatment.

Researchers found that **in each group given BPC-157, healing was significantly enhanced,** with improvements in recovery to damaged muscle tissue noted _irrespective of the method of administration_.

### The Verdict

The conclusions of this study, as well as those mentioned previously, clearly offer powerful evidence for the effectiveness of oral dosages (albeit in rodent test subjects). While far from proving that these findings can be extrapolated to apply to performance animals, these studies nonetheless provide a convincing argument that **oral dosing for BPC-157 can indeed be effective**.

For now, the general practice of administering the peptide by subcutaneous or intramuscular injection remains the most prevalent method of administration. Studies have consistently proven this method to work, especially when the more localized healing effects of body protection compounds are taken into account.

Still, the efficacy of oral administration for this specific peptide remains promising, particularly when considering its recuperative effects on gastrointestinal and neurological tissue injuries.

## Sources

[https://science.bio/product/bpc-157-aliquot/?attribute\_concentration=5mg](https://science.bio/product/bpc-157-aliquot/?attribute_concentration=5mg)

[https://tb-500.com/blogs/articles/is-oral-bpc-157-dosing-effective](https://tb-500.com/blogs/articles/is-oral-bpc-157-dosing-effective)

[https://examine.com/supplements/bpc-157/](https://examine.com/supplements/bpc-157/)

[https://bengreenfieldfitness.com/article/supplements-articles/how-to-use-bpc-157/](https://bengreenfieldfitness.com/article/supplements-articles/how-to-use-bpc-157/)